This are notes on videos by Practical Networking: 
https://youtu.be/0gGhuYOh-54

Access Control Lists - ACLs

Purpose: identify traffic
	How you apply an ACL determines its effect

For example, if you apply an ACL to:

	an interface - matched traffic is permitted through
	an NAT - matched traffic is processed through NAT
	a VPN - matched traffic is encrypted and sent through the tunnel
    Route-Map - matched advertisements are accepted
    QoS - matched traffic is prioritized (or de-prioritized)
    ...and many other apps

Again, an ACL is simply a tool on a Cisco router used to identify traffic.
We will focus on interfaces, the most common use for an access list.

We will use a topology with two computers connected to a router's interface   
fa0/0. The router's interface fa0/1 will go to two servers.

When you apply an access list to an interface, that access list is referred to 
as 'Packet Filer". The idea is that any packets sent by your inside hosts are 
gonna be matched against the access list to determine whether a router likes
those packets or not. There are two types of ACLs:

    Standard
    Extended

The difference is which fields in the packets they're using to identify traffic.
A standard ACL only matches the source IP. It provides a limitation, since it
allows only complete trust or complete distrust. Let's say you had a requirement
to allow PC1 to speak to Server1, but not allow PC1 to connect to Server2. With
the standard access list you can either permit the PC to speak to both servers,
or neither one of them (since you can ONLY configure the source IP address, not
anything else.) You can allow only complete trust or complete distrust. So that
is why Extended ACLs exist. They allow you to filter on many more fields, five
of them:

    Source IP
    Destination IP
    Source Port
    Destination Port
    Protocol

Packet Filter ACL can be applied:

    per interface: the actual physical interface of a router
    per direction: IN our OUT (IN the router or OUT the router)
    per IP Protocol: either IPv4 or IPv6, you cant have a single ACL filtering both 


